---
description: You will learn the "get" and "contains" command in this part
---

# 3. Querying

## Practice

Once Cypress has navigated to a website, you can query the website using CSS expressions.

{% hint style="info" %}
You can inspect the DOM of the website in the test result window. If you are using Chrome, you can right click on the element you want to inspect and the [Chrome dev tools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools) will open.
{% endhint %}

### get

To get the main header for instance, we can do:

```text
cy.get("h1");
```

Add this command to the test and you should see that it passes. Select the test step "Get h1". On the right side in the application you see the header "Kitchen Sink" is highlighted. Inspect the header and you will see it is \(the only\) "h1" element on the page.

Try:

```text
cy.get(".container");
```

This selects all the elements with class "container" on the page.

Try the following command:

```text
cy.get("does-not-exist");
```

The test will now fail. So cy.get already tests if an element is on the page or not without the use of "assertions", which we will cover later.

### contains

We can also get elements by their content:

```text
cy.contains("Kitchen Sink");
```

This will get the first element which contains the text "Kitchen Sink". 

Try:

```text
cy.contains("Commands");
```

This only selects the dropdown in the top, not the header.

### chaining

We can chain these two commands together as well, for example:

```text
cy.get("h1").contains("Kitchen Sink");
```

This will only select the "h1" headers which contain "Kitchen Sink".

## Exercise

Add a command which gets the header containing "Commands". 

## Additional reading \(not part of course\)

{% hint style="info" %}
The API of [get](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/get.html#Syntax) and [contains](https://docs.cypress.io/api/commands/contains.html#Syntax)
{% endhint %}

